So now that you know the basics
of Mongoose by implementing
all the four correct operations,
it's now to finally matter our tour data a bit better
in order to make the tours more complete.
So at this point, our tour documents can only have a name,
a rating, and a price.
But of course, we need so much more data here,
because the goal is to have a very data-rich API,
like this one.
So let's take a look at the final version
actually here as a reference.
And so that's this one here.
And so we get all tours,
and it's gonna look a bit like this.
Okay, so you see that on each tour,
we have a start location, we have ratings average,
ratings quantity, images, start dates.
Guides, name, duration, maximum group size,
difficulty, price, summary,
description, image cover, locations.
Even a slug, reviews, duration in weeks, and the ID.
So you see a lot of data,
and we're not gonna add all of the data
in this lecture here.
There are some pieces that we cannot add as of yet,
but we can of course make it a bit more complete, okay?
And let's actually save this here, like as a reference,
and get all tours, and I'm gonna put it outside
of any folder.
So let's put it just here at the top.
And that doesn't work for some reason.
Okay, let's just put it here, then.
Okay, let's get,
that's correct.
And so again, I'm leaving it here,
in order to keep comparing what we have
with what we're aiming for.
So anyway, let's go back,
and start with what we have already,
and we have the name.
And so that's already good enough,
so for now I'm gonna leave it like this.
So the name, then we also want a duration.
And that duration is a number, and it is required.
So set it to true, and then the message is,
a tour must have a duration.
So these required validators here basically
are the only validators that I'm gonna add
to each of these fields here for now.
Later on, when we're going to talk more in detail
about validators, we're gonna add a lot more.
But again, for now, I just want to make
some of these fields, not all of them, required.
Next up, we have the group size.
So basically, how many people can at most
take part of one tour.
And so I call that one the maxGroupSize.
And so that again should be a number,
and it is again required.
Tour must have a group size.
Don't forget the comma here.
Next up, we also need a difficulty.
And this one is a string, and later on,
we will define that it should be either medium,
easy, or difficult, but again,
that is actually a validator,
and I'm gonna leave that for a later time.
Okay, for now, I'm just saying
that it should have a difficulty.
Next up, let's talk about the ratings.
So right now we have a field called Rating,
but in fact we want to have one field
for the rating average,
and one field for the ratings quantity.
So basically the amount of ratings that there are.
So later, there will be another resource called reviews,
where users will be able to write reviews
about tours and give ratings.
And that's gonna be a completely different resource,
and a completely different model.
But still, we want to have basically a summary
of these ratings and of these reviews here in the tours.
Alright, and the reasons for that you will learn a bit later
once we start how and why we model data in NoSQL databases,
and specifically in MongoDB.
Okay, for now, let's just add the ratings average,
and the ratings quantity.
Okay, so we leave this here as number,
and with this default,
and the ratings quantity, ratingsQuantity.
That should of course also be a number,
and the default will be zero.
Because of course, in the beginning,
there will be absolutely no reviews, when the tour is new.
Now I didn't give these two properties here
a required value, because it's not the user
who creates these tours
who will actually specify these values, right?
So when we create a new tour,
we will never specify the ratingsAverage,
neither the ratingsQuantity,
because that will later on be calculated
from the real reviews, okay?
Next up, we have the price here,
so that's fine like this,
and we might also have a discount.
So let's say that this company,
so Natours, wants to give a discount to one of the tours
at some point, and so they can specify
a discount price here as well.
So priceDiscount, and so let's just put it here at number.
We don't need any schema type options here.
For example, it's not required,
and so for now, let's just leave it like this.
Next up, we can specify a summary of the tour.
So the summary is of type String.
But I will not actually make it required.
Okay, and that's simply because it's not
on the front page of our website.
Okay, so basically it's not on the overview.
And I'm gonna show you that in a second,
but for now let me just add here
another schema type option that I didn't show you yet,
which is called trim.
And trim only works for strings.
And I will set it to true.
So remember how I said that there are different schema types
for different types here,
and so for string, we have a schema type which is trim
which will remove all the white space
in the beginning and in the end of the string.
Okay, and so if someone enters, for example,
this tour, blah blah blah, doesn't matter.
So if someone enters this,
then all this whitespace in the end
and in the beginning here will get cut.
And actually, we can put the same thing on the name,
for example, here.
Okay, why not?
So let's leave it like this.
Here I see that it's actually called duration,
not durations.
Alright, so that's the summary, which is also misspelled.
So summary like this.
Oh, and yeah, now I wanted to show you
the Natours website, actually.
So that's back to our Mongoose documentation.
But this is what I want to show you.
So Natours.dev, which is the original of this application,
and so this is the data that we have in our API,
and that we also of course need in the database.
So we have all this data.
So this tour name, we have the difficulty,
we have the duration, we have,
this is a summary, then we have a start location,
we have the amount of locations,
we have a start date,
we have the maximum group size in here,
and we have to price, the rating average,
the rating quantity.
We also have an image here.
And then here on the details page is where we have,
we have the summary down here.
We have the guides that I just showed you in Postman before.
We have some more images.
We have here all the locations,
and we have all the reviews.
Okay, so as I was telling you,
not all the data is on the Overview page,
and so not all the data is also required.
Okay, so let's move back here.
Next up, I want to add a description.
And this is a type of String,
and let's set trim to true again.
And I just remembered that the summary
is actually on the Overview page.
And so let's make this one required.
So you add here at the end,
true,
a tour must have a description.
Okay, next up, we will specify the imageCover.
And so that's the images that you see on the overview page
and so let's set this one actually to require this role.
So the type should be string,
because basically this will simply be the name
of the image here, which then later,
we will be able to read from the file system.
Okay, so really just the name of the image.
So basically a reference will be stored in the database.
And that's a very common practice, okay?
So we could store the entire image as well in a database,
but that's usually not a good idea.
We simply leave the images somewhere in the file system
and then put the name of the image itself
in the database as a field.
So set it to required, true,
a tour must have a cover image.
Nice, next one is the rest of the images.
And now here, we have something new, okay?
Because we have multiple images,
and I want to save those images as an array.
And actually, as an array of strings.
And so the way to do it is to simplify specify here
an array of strings, just like this.
So I want it still to be of type string,
but I want it to be an array.
So an array in which we have a number of strings.
And so that's how I can define this, okay?
And we will use this later for something else again.
And so we will then actually pass in
more schema type options than just a type,
and so by then we will use that again, alright?
For now, though, let's move on,
and the next field that I wanted to add here
is the createdAt.
And the createdAt field should basically be a timestamp
that is set by the time that the user gets a new tour.
So this here should of course be added automatically.
Again, at the time the tour is created.
So how do we do that?
Well first of all, we set the type to Date.
So Data is yet another JavaScript built-in datatype,
and so we can use that here.
Okay, so the type is Date,
and then we simply need to set a default,
and the default is the JavaScript
built-in function Date.now.
And I'm sure you are familiar with this one.
So this will simply give us a timestamp in milliseconds,
which basically represents the current millisecond.
Alright, now in Mongo,
this is now immediately converted to today's date
in order to make more sense of this data, okay?
So yeah, that's the automatically created timestamp.
And now finally, we need to also pass in an array of dates.
And now finally, to finish for now,
we also want to able to define an array of start dates.
So startDates, and again, we simply define an array,
and then say that in there we want dates.
Alright, so these startDates are basically different dates
at which a tour starts.
For example, we can have a tour starting
in December this year,
and then in February, the next year,
and then another one in the summer,
and so different dates for the same tour
are simply different, let's say,
instances of the tour starting on different dates.
Alright, I hope that makes sense.
Anyway, this one here will not be automatically created
by MongoDB, and MongoDB will then automatically
try to parse the string that we passed in as the date
into a real JavaScript date.
For example, we could pass in something like
let's say 2021, March 21st,
and again Mongo would then automatically parse
this as a date.
You can also specify the date.
For example, saying 11 and 32 minutes, alright.
Or we could also simply input a Unix timestamp,
so a timestamp like in this format here.
Okay, and so all of these formats,
basically, Mongo will try to parse them into a date.
And only if it can't, it will then throw an error.
(exhales) So this was a lot of work.
Let's give it a save here.
And the way that we can then try this out
is to go here to our dev-data,
where we have this tour-simple.json file,
which is the one we've been using in a previous section.
All right.
And so all I'm gonna do here
is to just grab all this data here,
and then use that one to create a new request, okay?
So we want to create a new POST request here,
and with all that data,
instead of having to write it out manually.
Okay, so pasting all of this here.
And now indeed, we do not need the ID.
So we needed it before,
when we were doing our file-based API,
but that's over now, so let's get rid of that.
And so all the rest of the data
that we marked that's required is now actually here,
and even some more.
So let's try to see what happens when we submit this.
And now we get invalid data sent.
So let's actually go to our tour controller,
and in here, where we create a tour,
instead of this message let's actually go back
like we had it before and send the entire error
just so we see what is actually going wrong.
So send it here, okay, and the problem was
that we have The Snow Adventure already defined.
So let's first get rid of that.
Yeah, so here we have The Snow Adventure,
so we should delete this, and for that,
I'm using our own API,
so we can already put it to some use here.
So that one should now be gone,
and so now we should be able to add this as a new tour.
And indeed, it's now here.
So here is all the data that we just specified
in this nice format.
So what is interesting now is to actually see
the createdAt timestamp.
So that's the exact time at which I'm recording this video.
And so this one was of course automatically created
by this piece of code that we have somewhere here.
Yeah, this.
So that date is coming from this Date.now timestamp
that JavaScript then automatically parses
to this nice and readable date.
Then here we have these arrays.
Okay, so this array and another array,
and of course, the automatically generated ID, alright?
So if we come here now,
we then have of course three tours.
First, the other ones which are not so complete,
and then all of these.
Now what's interesting to see here is that Mongo
also actually updated kind of the tours that we already had.
So for example, we had rating here,
but now that our schema completely changed,
it then added this ratings average,
and also this ratings quantity, both to their defaults,
and the same actually here.
It also created this timestamp.
It created, yeah, it created images and start dates,
with these empty arrays.
And so it kind of changed all this data here.
Alright, and so before we start moving on in a project,
we should probably go ahead
and delete all of this data here.
And actually, what we're gonna do in the next video,
now that our model is finally completed,
at least for this section,
we will go ahead and write a small script
which will automatically import all of the tours
from this JSON data.
Okay, so from this JSON file, actually.
So it will basically read the file,
get all the tours, and import them into the database.
Alright, so that's what we're gonna do next,
because that will be hugely useful
in this section and also in the future.